docs: add module/target compiler option migration docs (#37429)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/migration-update-module-and-target-compiler-options.md

# Update module and target compiler options migration

## What does this migration do?

This migration adjusts the [`target`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/v2/en/tsconfig#target) and [`module`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/v2/en/tsconfig#module) settings within the [TypeScript configuration files](guide/typescript-configuration) for the workspace.
The changes to each option vary based on the builder or command that uses the TypeScript configuration file.
Unless otherwise noted, the migration will only make a change if the value for an option was not modified from the previous default value for a new project as shown in the "Existing Value" column.
This process helps ensure that intentional changes to the options are kept in place.

TypeScript Configuration File(s) | Changed Property | Existing Value | New Value
------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------------

> Workspace base [`tsconfig.base.json`] | `"module"` | `"esnext"` | `"es2020"`

Reviewer: I'll fix this and force-push

# Update module and target compiler options migration

> ## What does this migration do?

Author: These section headings are common to all migration documentation.
I believe they were intended to be more FAQ-like.

The migration docs are not really guides and eventually should be moved out of their current location but more infrastructure is necessary.  This current state is also why there needs to be an explicit pullaprove line added per migration document.

> ## What does this migration do?

Reviewer 2: I don't like questions in headings, because I think it makes more work for the users. But I'm happy to take an action item to create a separate PR for this.

This migration will adjust the [`target`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/v2/en/tsconfig#target) and [`module`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/v2/en/tsconfig#module) settings within the [TypeScript configuration files](guide/typescript-configuration) for the workspace.
The changes to each option vary based on the builder/command that uses the TypeScript configuration file.

> Unless otherwise noted, changes are only made if the existing value was not changed from the value previously used by a new project.

Reviewer: "if the existing value was not changed since the project was created." is likely the best.

This ensures that intentional changes to the options are kept in place.

TypeScript Configuration File(s) | Changed Property | Existing Value | New Value
------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
Workspace base [`tsconfig.base.json`] | `"module"` | `"esnext"` | `"es2020"`
Used in `browser` builder options (`ng build` for applications) | `"module"` | `"esnext"` | `"es2020"`
Used in `ng-packgr` builder options (`ng build` for libraries) | `"module"` | `"esnext"` | `"es2020"`
Used in `karma` builder options (`ng test` for applications) | `"module"` | `"esnext"` | `"es2020"`
Used in `server` builder options (universal) | `"module"` | `"commonjs"` | _removed_
&nbsp; | `"target"` | _any_ | `"es2016"`
Used in `protractor` builder options (`ng e2e` for applications) | `"target"` | `"es5"` | `"es2018"`

> ## Why is this migration necessary?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Purpose
```
Editing for conciseness.

> This provides improvements to supportability and the long-term sustainment of projects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This migration provides improvements to supportability and the long-term sustainability of projects.
```

But what is the difference between supportability and sustainability here?

Author: From a systems engineering perspective they are related but different concepts and are generally associated with reliability and maintainability as well.
I'll reduce this to just supportability here though.

> For the functionality that executes on Node.js, such as universal and protractor, the new settings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the functionality that executes on Node.js, such as universal and protractor, the new settings
```
Aren't Universal and Protractor proper names? If so, we should capitalize them.

> provide performance and debug/troubleshooting benefits as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
provide performance and debug and troubleshooting benefits as well.
```

> The minimum Node.js version for the Angular CLI (v10.13) supports features present up to ES2018.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The minimum Node.js version for the Angular CLI (v10.13) supports features in ES2018 and earlier.
```
I'm not sure what "supports features present up to ES2018" means. Is this suggestion correct?

> By targetting later ES versions, less code is transformed which allows newer features to be used directly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By targeting later ES versions, the compiler transforms less code and can use newer features directly.
```
Transformed by and used by what? I think its the compiler.

> Since zone.js does not support native async/await, the universal builds must still target ES2016.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since zone.js does not support native `async` and `await`, the universal builds still target ES2016.
```

Author: "async/await" is the common term to describe the feature.

Reviewer: I fixed this.

> ## Why `"es2020"` instead of `"esnext"`?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## `"es2020"` and `"esnext"`
```

Author: The question form is following the format of the existing migration documentation.

> In TypeScript 3.9 the behavior of the TypeScript compiler controlled by `module` is the same with both `"esnext"` and `"es2020"` values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In TypeScript 3.9, the behavior of the TypeScript compiler controlled by `module` is the same with both `"esnext"` and `"es2020"` values.
```

> This can however change in the future where the `"esnext"` option could evolve in a backwards incompatible ways resulting in build-time or run-time errors during TypeScript update.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This behavior can change in the future, because the `"esnext"` option could evolve in a backwards incompatible ways, resulting in build-time or run-time errors during a TypeScript update.
```

> This could result in undesirable instability which can be avoided by using the `"es2020"` option whose behavior is not going to change any more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a result, code can become unstable. Using the `"es2020"` option mitigates this risk.
```

# Update Module and Target Compiler Options Migration

## What does this migration do?

This migration will adjust the `target` and `module` within the `tsconfig` files for the workspace.
The changes to each option vary based on the builder/command that uses the tsconfig.

> Unless otherwise noted, changes are only made if the existing value matches an expected value.

Author: That wording was actually intentional.  The migration will not make any changes unless it finds a particular value already present in the option (the old generated value).  I believe this is to prevent the migration from breaking intentional changes to the configuration.  I can expand on that here.

For the browser builder (`ng build` for applications), `module` is changed to `es2020` from `esnext`.

For the ng-packgr builder (`ng build` for libraries), `module` is changed to `es2020` from `esnext`.

For the karma builder (`ng test` for applications), `module` is changed to `es2020` from `esnext`.

For the server builder (universal builds), `module` is removed if originally `commonjs`.
`target` is also changed to `es2016` regardless of the previous value.

> For the protractor builder (`ng e2e` for applications), `module` is changed to `es2018` from `es5`.

Reviewer 3: `module` -> `target`

> For the protractor builder (`ng e2e` for applications), `target` is changed to `es2018` from `es5`.

Author: I'll try it out so we can see what it looks like.

## Why is this migration necessary?

> These changes synchronize the values of these options with new projects.

Author: Removed.

This was intended to lead into the next sentence regarding supportability and sustainment.
I think syncing existing projects with new release is somewhat common.  There's actually a project dedicated to tracking the changes between releases to make it easy for users to adjust their projects:
https://github.com/cexbrayat/angular-cli-diff

This provides improvements to supportability and the long-term sustainment of projects.

For the functionality that executes on Node.js, such as universal and protractor, the new settings
provide performance and debug/troubleshooting benefits as well.
The minimum Node.js version for the Angular CLI (v10.13), supports features present up to ES2018.
By targetting later ES versions, less code is transformed which allows newer features to be used directly.
Since zone.js does not support native async/await, the universal builds must still target ES2016.

> ## Can `esnext` still be used instead of `es2020`?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why `"es2020"` instead of `"esnext"`?
```

> Both `esnext` and `es2020` values provide support for dynamic imports which are used for lazy routing.

Reviewer: While this is partly true, the person reading this doesn't know this setting actually enables lazy routing (in fact more generally in enables dynamic import support).

> 
> Both `esnext` and `es2020` values provide support for dynamic imports which are used for lazy routing.
> However, `es2020` has a fixed set of included features and behavior.
> By instead using `esnext`, updates to the TypeScript compiler could cause changes in behavior or include
> unsupported features during compilation.  This could result in either build-time or run-time errors.

Reviewer: How about something like this:
```suggestion

In TypeScript 3.9 the behavior of the TypeScript compiler controlled by the [`module`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/v2/en/tsconfig#module) is the same with both `"esnext"` and `"es2020"` values.
This can however change in the future where the `"esnext"` option could evolve in a backwards incompatible ways resulting in build-time or run-time errors during TypeScript update.
This could result in undesirable instability which can be avoided by using the `"es2020"` option whose behavior is not going to change any more.
```
